# Electromag

## Electromagnetism

1. 2 Kinds of charges (positive and negative)
2. Charges experience for according to Coloumb's Law
$\boxed{\vec F =\frac{k q_1 q_2}{r^2} \hat r}$

Coloumb's Constant:
$K=8.99\times 10^{9}Nm^2/C^2$
$K=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}$
Permittivity of free space:
$\epsilon_0=8.854\times 10^{-12}C^2/Nm^2$

3. Electric charge is always conserved


4. Electric charge is quantized


## Coloumb's Law

Conductor: allows charges to flow through material easily

If you apply an electric field across conductor, the electrons will feel the force

Charge is not free to move through an insulator.

### Charging

Touching: friction

Induction: involves polarization

### Electric Field

We can think about interactions between charges in 2 ways. 

1. Action at a distance: A charge q1, exerts a force on another charge q2 at a distance r. If q1 disappears, the force will not be lost instantaneously.

2. Field view - charge q1 generates an electric field everywhere in space, then the E static force on q2 is generated by the electric field.
Electrical force on q2 is produced by $\vec E$ at the position of q2.

Define the electric field as:
The electric field, $\vec E$, at a point in space is a vector quantity that can be measured as follows: place a "test charge" q1 at that point in space, and measure the E-force due to all other charges in the space. The electric field at that point is:

$\vec E=\frac{\vec{F_q}}{q}$ "force per unit charge on test charge".

Field exists even without the test charge to feel it. 
Exactly like the gravitational field.

Q>0: E points away
Q<0: E points towards

2kQ/(d*sqrt2)^2/sqrt2
$=\frac{kQ}{d^2 \sqrt2} \hat x$ 

$\vec E=\int_d^\infty \frac{k \lambda dx}{x^2} \hat x $
$\vec E=\hat x k \lambda *-x^{-1}|_d^\infty$
$\vec E=\hat x k \lambda (1/d)$

$d \vec E = \frac{dq}{4\pi \epsilon_0 r^2} \hat r$

$dq=\lambda d \theta$

$\lambda = \frac{Q}{2\pi R}$

$dq=\frac{q}{2 \pi } d \theta$

$E=\int d E_x=\int d E_x \frac{b}{\sqrt{b^2+R^2}}$
$E=\frac{Q b d \theta}{8 \pi^2 \epsilon_0 (b^2+R^2)^{3/2}}$
$\vec E=\frac{Q b}{4 \pi \epsilon_0 (b^2+R^2)^{3/2}} \hat x$


$d \vec E = \frac{dq b}{4\pi \epsilon_0 (b^2+r^2)^{3/2}} \hat x$
$dq = \sigma 2 \pi r dr$
$E=\int_0^R \frac{\sigma b r}{2 \epsilon_0 (b^2+r^2)^{3/2}} dr$
$-\frac{1}{4}*\frac{\sigma b r}{2 \epsilon_0}(-(b^2+r^2)^{-1/2}+(b)^{-1}) \hat x$

infinite plane:
$\vec E=\frac{\sigma}{2 \epsilon_0} \hat x$

$\frac{\lambda}{2 \pi \epsilon_0 r} \hat x$

# Gauss's Law:
first of the 4 maxwells equations:

field equations for classical electrodynamics:

Electric flux through any closed surface S, is equal to a constant $(\frac{1}{\epsilon_0})$times the charge enclosed by surface.

$\boxed{\oint_S \vec E \cdot d \vec a = \frac{Q_{enclosed}}{ \epsilon_0}}$

- need surface where $|\vec E|$ is constant
- perpendicular to surface, so $\vec E = d \vec a$

$\Phi= \oint_S \vec E \cdot d \vec a = \frac{Q_{enclosed}}{ \epsilon_0}$
differential form
$\nabla^2 V = - \frac{\rho}{\epsilon_0} $